#summary Reference documentation for `mingus.core.progressions`.

----

= mingus.core.progressions =



	In music and music theory you often deal with sequences 
	of chords. These chord sequences are called progressions and are
	often written down using roman numerals. In this system the 'I' 
	refers to the first natural triad in a key, the II to the second,
	etc. We can add prefixes and suffixes to denote more complex 
	progressions, like: #V7, bIIdim7, etc.

	This module provides methods which can convert progressions 
	to chords and vice versa.



----

== Attributes ==

=== `numeral_intervals` ===

  * *Type*: list
  * *Value*: [0, 2, 4, 5, 7, 9, 11]

=== `numerals` ===

  * *Type*: list
  * *Value*: ['I', 'II', 'III', 'IV', 'V', 'VI', 'VII']

----

== Functions ==

=== `determine(chord, key, shorthand)` ===

  * *Default values*: shorthand = False
  * Determines the harmonic function of chord in key. This function can also deal with lists of chords. 
{{{ 
>>> determine(["C", "E", "G"], "C") 
['tonic'] 
>>> determine(["G", "B", "D"], "C")
['dominant']
>>> determine(["G", "B", "D", "F"], "C", True)
['V7']
>>> determine([["C", "E", "G"], ["G", "B", "D"]], "C", True)
[['I'], ['V']]
}}}

=== `interval_diff(progression1, progression2, interval)` ===

  * Returns the number of half steps progression2 needs to be diminished or augmented until the interval between `progression1` and `progression2` is `interval`

=== `parse_string(progression)` ===

  * Returns a tuple (roman numeral, accidentals, chord suffix). 
{{{
>>> progressions.parse_string("I")
('I', 0, '')
>>> progressions.parse_string("bIM7")
('I', -1, 'M7')
}}}

=== `skip(roman_numeral, skip)` ===

  * *Default values*: skip = 1
  * Skips `skip` places to the next roman numeral. 
{{{
>>> progressions.skip("I")
'II'
>>> progressions.skip("VII")
'I'
>>> progressions.skip("I", 2)
'III'
}}}

=== `substitute(progression, substitute_index, depth)` ===

  * *Default values*: depth = 0
  * Gives a list of possible substitutions for `progression[substitute_index]`. If depth > 0 the substitutions of each result will be recursively added as well.
{{{
>>> progressions.substitute(["I", "IV", "V", "I"], 0)
["III", "VI", etc.
}}}

=== `substitute_diminished_for_diminished(progression, substitute_index, ignore_suffix)` ===

  * *Default values*: ignore_suffix = False
  * Substitutes a diminished chord for another diminished chord. Recognizes the 'dim' and 'dim7' suffix and "VI" if there is no suffix.
{{{
>>> progressions.substitute_diminished_for_diminished(["VII"], 0)
["IIdim", "bIVdim", "bbVIdim"]
}}}

=== `substitute_diminished_for_dominant(progression, substitute_index, ignore_suffix)` ===

  * *Default values*: ignore_suffix = False
=== `substitute_harmonic(progression, substitute_index, ignore_suffix)` ===

  * *Default values*: ignore_suffix = False
  * Does simple harmonic substitutions. Returns a list of possible substitions for `progression[substitute_index]`. If `ignore_suffix` is set to True the suffix of the chord being substituted will be ignored. Otherwise only progressions without a suffix, or with suffix '7' will be substituted. The following table is used to convert progressions: 
|| I || III || 
|| I || VI || 
|| IV || II || 
|| IV || VI || 
|| V || VII ||

=== `substitute_major_for_minor(progression, substitute_index, ignore_suffix)` ===

  * *Default values*: ignore_suffix = False
  * Substitutes major chords for their minor equivalent. Recognizes 'M' and 'M7' suffixes and ['I', 'IV', 'V'] if there is no suffix.
{{{
>>> progressions.substitute_major_for_minor(["I"], 0)
["VI"]
>>> progressions.substitute_major_for_minor(["VM7"], 0)
["IIIm7"]
}}}

=== `substitute_minor_for_major(progression, substitute_index, ignore_suffix)` ===

  * *Default values*: ignore_suffix = False
  * Substitutes minor chords for its major equivalent. Recognizes 'm' and 'm7' suffixes and ['II', 'III', 'VI'] if there is no suffix.
{{{
>>> progressions.substitute_minor_for_major(["VI"], 0)
["I"]
>>> progressions.substitute_minor_for_major(["Vm"], 0)
["bVIIM"]
>>> progressions.substitute_minor_for_major(["VIm7"], 0)
["IM7"]
}}}

=== `to_chords(progression, key)` ===

  * *Default values*: key = 'C'
  * Converts a list of chord functions (eg `['I', 'V7']`) or a string (eg. 'I7') to a list of chords. Any number of accidentals can be used as prefix to augment or diminish; for example: bIV or #I. All the chord abbreviations in the chord module can be used as suffixes; for example: Im7, IVdim7, etc. You can combine prefixes and suffixes to manage complex progressions: #vii7, #iidim7, iii7, etc. Using 7 as suffix is ambiguous, since it is classicly used to denote the seventh chord when talking about progressions instead of _just_ the dominanth seventh chord. We have taken the classic route; I7 will get you a major seventh chord. If you specifically want a dominanth seventh, use Idom7.

=== `tuple_to_string(prog_tuple)` ===

  * Creates a string from tuples returned by parse_string

----

[mingusIndex Back to Index]