#summary Reference documentation for `mingus.core.chords`.

----

= mingus.core.chords =



	The chords module is a huge module that builds on the 	[refMingusCoreIntervals intervals] module. It can be used to generate and 	recognise a plethora of chords. The following overview groups some of the functions you are most likely to use together.  

	== Generate Diatonic Chords ==
	* Triads
		* triad
		* triads
	* Sevenths
		* seventh
		* sevenths

	== Generate Absolute Chords ==
	* Triads
		* minor_triad
		* major_triad
		* diminished_triad
	* Sixths
		* minor_sixth
		* major_sixth
	* Sevenths
		* minor_seventh
		* major_seventh
		* dominant_seventh
		* minor_major_seventh
		* minor_seventh_flat_five
		* diminished_seventh
	* Ninths
		* minor_ninth
		* major_ninth
		* dominant_ninth
	* Elevenths
		* minor_eleventh
		* eleventh
	* Thirteenths
		* minor_thirteenth
		* major_thirteenth
		* dominant_thirteenth
	* Augmented chords
		* augmented_triad
		* augmented_major_seventh
		* augmented_minor_seventh
	* Suspended chords
		* suspended_second_triad
		* suspended_fourth_triad
		* suspended_seventh
		* suspended_fourth_ninth
		* suspended_ninth
	* Altered chords
		* dominant_flat_ninth
		* dominant_sharp_ninth
		* dominant_flat_five
		* sixth_ninth
		* hendrix_chord

	== Get Chords by Function ==

	* Function
		* tonic and tonic7
		* supertonic and supertonic7
		* mediant and mediant7
		* subdominant and subdominant7
		* dominant and dominant7
		* submediant and submediant7
	* Aliases
		* I, II, III, IV, V, VI
		* ii, iii, vi, vii
		* I7, II7, III7, IV7, V7, VI7
		* ii7, iii7, vi7

	== Useful Functions ==

	* determine - Can recognize all the chords that can be generated with from_shorthand (a lot) and their inversions.
	* from_shorthand - Generates chords from shorthand (eg. 'Cmin7')




----

== Attributes ==

=== `chord_shorthand_meaning` ===

  * *Type*: dict
  * *Value*: {'': ' major triad', 'm11': ' minor eleventh', 'm13': ' minor thirteenth', '67': ' dominant sixth', '69': ' sixth ninth', '7b12': ' hendrix chord', 'hendrix': ' hendrix chord', 'aug': ' augmented triad', 'm7': ' minor seventh', 'm6': ' minor sixth', '6': ' major sixth', '5': ' perfect fifth', 'm9': ' minor ninth', 'm7+': ' augmented minor seventh', '6/7': ' dominant sixth', '7#11': ' lydian dominant seventh', '6/9': ' sixth ninth', '11': ' eleventh', 'dim': ' diminished triad', '13': ' dominant thirteenth', '7b5': ' dominant flat five', 'm7b5': ' half diminished seventh', 'susb9': ' suspended fourth ninth', 'mM7': ' minor/major seventh', '7b9': ' dominant flat ninth', 'M13': ' major thirteenth', 'sus47': ' suspended seventh', 'm': ' minor triad', 'sus4b9': ' suspended fourth ninth', 'M7': ' major seventh', 'M6': ' major sixth', 'dim7': ' diminished seventh', 'M7+': ' augmented major seventh', 'M9': ' major ninth', 'dom7': ' dominant seventh', 'M7+5': ' augmented minor seventh', '+': ' augmented triad', 'sus': ' suspended fourth triad', '7': ' dominant seventh', '9': ' dominant ninth', 'M': ' major triad', '7+': ' augmented major seventh', 'sus2': ' suspended second triad', 'sus4': ' suspended fourth triad', '7#5': ' augmented minor seventh', '7#9': ' dominant sharp ninth', 'm/M7': ' minor/major seventh'}

=== `chord_shorthand` ===

  * *Type*: dict
  * *Value*: {'': <function major_triad at 0x7f709cc28320>, 'm11': <function minor_eleventh at 0x7f709cc28de8>, 'm13': <function minor_thirteenth at 0x7f709cc28e60>, '67': <function dominant_sixth at 0x7f709cc28a28>, '69': <function sixth_ninth at 0x7f709cc28aa0>, '7b12': <function hendrix_chord at 0x7f709cc29488>, 'hendrix': <function hendrix_chord at 0x7f709cc29488>, 'aug': <function augmented_triad at 0x7f709cc28488>, 'm7': <function minor_seventh at 0x7f709cc28668>, 'm6': <function minor_sixth at 0x7f709cc28938>, '6': <function major_sixth at 0x7f709cc289b0>, '5': <function <lambda> at 0x7f709cc2ac80>, 'm9': <function minor_ninth at 0x7f709cc28b18>, 'm7+': <function augmented_minor_seventh at 0x7f709cc29320>, '6/7': <function dominant_sixth at 0x7f709cc28a28>, '7#11': <function lydian_dominant_seventh at 0x7f709cc29410>, '6/9': <function sixth_ninth at 0x7f709cc28aa0>, '11': <function eleventh at 0x7f709cc28d70>, 'dim': <function diminished_triad at 0x7f709cc28410>, '13': <function dominant_thirteenth at 0x7f709cc28f50>, '7b5': <function dominant_flat_five at 0x7f709cc29398>, 'm7b5': <function minor_seventh_flat_five at 0x7f709cc287d0>, 'susb9': <function suspended_fourth_ninth at 0x7f709cc29230>, 'mM7': <function minor_major_seventh at 0x7f709cc288c0>, '7b9': <function dominant_flat_ninth at 0x7f709cc28c80>, 'M13': <function major_thirteenth at 0x7f709cc28ed8>, 'sus47': <function suspended_seventh at 0x7f709cc291b8>, 'm': <function minor_triad at 0x7f709cc28398>, 'sus4b9': <function suspended_fourth_ninth at 0x7f709cc29230>, 'M7': <function major_seventh at 0x7f709cc285f0>, 'M6': <function major_sixth at 0x7f709cc289b0>, 'dim7': <function diminished_seventh at 0x7f709cc28848>, 'M7+': <function augmented_major_seventh at 0x7f709cc292a8>, 'M9': <function major_ninth at 0x7f709cc28b90>, 'dom7': <function dominant_seventh at 0x7f709cc286e0>, 'M7+5': <function augmented_minor_seventh at 0x7f709cc29320>, '+': <function augmented_triad at 0x7f709cc28488>, 'sus': <function suspended_triad at 0x7f709cc29050>, '7': <function dominant_seventh at 0x7f709cc286e0>, '9': <function dominant_ninth at 0x7f709cc28c08>, 'M': <function major_triad at 0x7f709cc28320>, '7+': <function augmented_major_seventh at 0x7f709cc292a8>, 'sus2': <function suspended_second_triad at 0x7f709cc290c8>, 'sus4': <function suspended_fourth_triad at 0x7f709cc29140>, '7#5': <function augmented_minor_seventh at 0x7f709cc29320>, '7#9': <function dominant_sharp_ninth at 0x7f709cc28cf8>, 'm/M7': <function minor_major_seventh at 0x7f709cc288c0>}

----

== Functions ==

=== `I(key)` ===

=== `I7(key)` ===

=== `II(key)` ===

=== `II7(key)` ===

=== `III(key)` ===

=== `III7(key)` ===

=== `IV(key)` ===

=== `IV7(key)` ===

=== `V(key)` ===

=== `V7(key)` ===

=== `VI(key)` ===

=== `VI7(key)` ===

=== `VII(key)` ===

=== `VII7(key)` ===

=== `augmented_major_seventh(note)` ===

  * Builds an augmented major seventh chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> augmented_major_seventh("C") 
["C", "E", "G#", "B"]
}}}

=== `augmented_minor_seventh(note)` ===

  * Builds an augmented minor seventh chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> augmented_minor_seventh("C")
["C", "E", "G#", "Bb"]
}}}

=== `augmented_triad(note)` ===

  * Builds an augmented triad on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> augmented_triad("C")
["C", "E", "G#"]
}}}

=== `determine(chord, shorthand, no_inversions, no_polychords)` ===

  * *Default values*: shorthand = False, no_inversions = False, no_polychords = False
  * Names a chord. Can determine almost every chord, from a simple triad to a fourteen note polychord.

=== `determine_extended_chord5(chord, shorthand, no_inversions, no_polychords)` ===

  * *Default values*: shorthand = False, no_inversions = False, no_polychords = False
  * Determines the names of an extended chord

=== `determine_extended_chord6(chord, shorthand, no_inversions, no_polychords)` ===

  * *Default values*: shorthand = False, no_inversions = False, no_polychords = False
  * Determines the names of an 6 note chord

=== `determine_extended_chord7(chord, shorthand, no_inversions, no_polychords)` ===

  * *Default values*: shorthand = False, no_inversions = False, no_polychords = False
  * Determines the names of an 7 note chord

=== `determine_polychords(chord, shorthand)` ===

  * *Default values*: shorthand = False
  * Determines the polychords in chord. Can handle anything from polychords based on two triads to 6 note extended chords.

=== `determine_seventh(seventh, shorthand, no_inversion, no_polychords)` ===

  * *Default values*: shorthand = False, no_inversion = False, no_polychords = False
  * Determines the type of seventh chord. Returns the results in a lists, ordered on inversions. Expects `seventh` to be a list of 4 notes. If `shorthand` is set to True, results will be returned in chord shorthand ('Cmin7', etc.) - inversions will be dropped in that case.
	Example:
{{{
>>> determine_seventh(['C', 'E', 'G', 'B'])
['C major seventh']
}}}

=== `determine_triad(triad, shorthand, no_inversions, placeholder)` ===

  * *Default values*: shorthand = False, no_inversions = False, placeholder = None
  * Names the triad. Returns answers in a list. The third argument should not be given. If shorthand is True the answers will be in abbreviated form.

Can determine major, minor, diminished and suspended triads. Also knows about invertions.

Examples:
{{{
>>> determine_triad(["A", "C", "E"])
'A minor triad'
>>> determine_triad(["C", "E", "A"]) 
'A minor triad, first inversion'
>>> determine_triad(["A", "C", "E"], True)
'Am'
}}}

=== `diminished_seventh(note)` ===

  * Builds a diminished seventh chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> diminished_seventh("C") 
["C", "Eb", "Gb", "Bbb"]
}}}

=== `diminished_triad(note)` ===

  * Builds a diminished triad on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> diminished_triad("C")
["C", "Eb", "Gb"]
}}}

=== `dominant(key)` ===

  * Returns the dominant chord in key.
	Example:
{{{
>>> dominant("C") 
["G", "B", "D"]
}}}

=== `dominant7(key)` ===

  * Same as dominant(key), but returns seventh chord

=== `dominant_flat_five(note)` ===

  * Builds a dominant flat five chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> dominant_flat_five("C")
['C', 'E', 'Gb', 'Bb']
}}}

=== `dominant_flat_ninth(note)` ===

  * Builds a dominant flat ninth chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> dominant_ninth("C")
['C', 'E', 'G', 'Bb', 'Db']
}}}

=== `dominant_ninth(note)` ===

  * Builds a dominant ninth chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> dominant_ninth("C")
['C', 'E', 'G', 'Bb', 'D']
}}}

=== `dominant_seventh(note)` ===

  * Builds a dominant seventh on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> dominant_seventh("C")
["C", "E", "G", "Bb"]
}}}

=== `dominant_sharp_ninth(note)` ===

  * Builds a dominant sharp ninth chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> dominant_ninth("C")
['C', 'E', 'G', 'Bb', 'D#']
}}}

=== `dominant_sixth(note)` ===

  * Builds the altered chord 6/7 on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> dominant_sixth("C")
['C', 'E', 'G', 'A', 'Bb']
}}}

=== `dominant_thirteenth(note)` ===

  * Builds a dominant thirteenth chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> dominant_thirteenth('C')
['C', 'E', 'G', 'Bb', 'D', 'A']
}}}

=== `eleventh(note)` ===

  * Builds an eleventh chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> eleventh("C")
['C', 'G', 'Bb', 'F']
}}}

=== `first_inversion(chord)` ===

  * The first inversion of a chord

=== `from_shorthand(shorthand_string, slash)` ===

  * *Default values*: slash = None
  * Takes a chord written in shorthand and returns the notes in the chord. The function can recognize triads, sevenths, sixths, ninths, elevenths, thirteenths, slashed chords and a number of altered chords. The second argument should not be given and is only used for a recursive call when a slashed chord or polychord is found. See [http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Music_Theory/Complete_List_of_Chord_Patterns Wikibooks] for a nice overview of chord patterns.
	Example:
{{{
>>> from_shorthand("Amin")
["A", "C", "E"]
>>> from_shorthand("Am/M7")
["F", "Ab", "C", "E"]
>>> from_shorthand("A")
["A", "C#", "E"]
>>> from_shorthand("A/G")
["G", "A", "C#", "E"]
>>> from_shorthand("Dm|G")
["G", "B", "D", "F", "A"]

}}}
	Recognised abbreviations: the letters `m` and `M` in the following abbreviations  can always be substituted by respectively `min`, `mi` or `-` and `maj` or `ma` (eg. `from_shorthand("Amin7") == from_shorthand("Am7")`, etc.).
	* Triads: *'m'*, *'M'* or *''*, *'dim'*. 
	* Sevenths: *'m7'*, *'M7'*, *'7'*, *'m7b5'*, *'dim7'*, *'m/M7'* or *'mM7'*
	* Augmented chords: *'aug'* or *'+'*, *'7#5'* or *'M7+5'*, *'M7+'*, *'m7+'*, *'7+'*
	* Suspended chords: *'sus4'*, *'sus2'*, *'sus47'*, *'sus'*, *'11'*, *'sus4b9'* or *'susb9'*
	* Sixths: *'6'*, *'m6'*, *'M6'*, *'6/7'* or *'67'*, *6/9* or *69*
	* Ninths: *'9'*, *'M9'*, *'m9'*, *'7b9'*, *'7#9'*
	* Elevenths: *'11'*, *'7#11'*, *'m11'*
	* Thirteenths: *'13'*, *'M13'*, *'m13'*
	* Altered chords: *'7b5'*, *'7b9'*, *'7#9'*, *'67'* or *'6/7'*
	* Special: *'5'*, *'NC'*, *'hendrix'*
	

=== `half_diminished_seventh(note)` ===

  * Builds a half diminished seventh (=minor seventh flat five) chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> half_diminished_seventh("C")
["C", "Eb", "Gb", "Bb"]
}}}

=== `hendrix_chord(note)` ===

  * Builds the famous Hendrix chord (7b12)
	Example:
{{{
>>> hendrix_chord('C')
['C', 'E', 'G', 'Bb', 'Eb']
}}}

=== `ii(key)` ===

=== `ii7(key)` ===

=== `iii(key)` ===

=== `iii7(key)` ===

=== `int_desc(tries)` ===

  * Helper function that returns the inversion of the triad in a string

=== `invert(chord)` ===

  * Inverts a given chord one time

=== `lydian_dominant_seventh(note)` ===

  * Builds the lydian dominant seventh (7#11) on note
	Example:
{{{
>>> lydian_dominant_seventh('C')
['C', 'E', 'G', 'Bb', 'F#']

}}}

=== `major_ninth(note)` ===

  * Builds a major ninth chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> major_ninth("C")
['C', 'E', 'G', 'B', 'D']
}}}

=== `major_seventh(note)` ===

  * Builds a major seventh on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> major_seventh("C") 
["C", "E", "G", "B"]
}}}

=== `major_sixth(note)` ===

  * Builds a major sixth chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> major_sixth("C")
['C', 'E', 'G', 'A']
}}}

=== `major_thirteenth(note)` ===

  * Builds a major thirteenth chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> major_thirteenth('C')
['C', 'E', 'G', 'B', 'D', 'A']
}}}

=== `major_triad(note)` ===

  * Builds a major triad on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> major_triad("C")
["C", "E", "G"]
}}}

=== `mediant(key)` ===

  * Returns the mediant chord in key.
	Example:
{{{
>>> mediant("C") 
["E", "G", "B"]
}}}

=== `mediant7(key)` ===

  * Same as mediant(key), but returns seventh chord

=== `minor_eleventh(note)` ===

  * Builds a minor eleventh chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> minor_eleventh("C")
['C', 'Eb', 'G', 'Bb', 'F']
}}}

=== `minor_major_seventh(note)` ===

  * Builds a minor major seventh chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> minor_major_seventh("C")
["C", "Eb", "G", "B"]
}}}

=== `minor_ninth(note)` ===

  * Builds a minor ninth chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> minor_ninth("C")
['C', 'Eb', 'G', 'Bb', 'D']
}}}

=== `minor_seventh(note)` ===

  * Builds a minor seventh on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> minor_seventh("C")
["C", "Eb", "G", "Bb"]
}}}

=== `minor_seventh_flat_five(note)` ===

  * See half_diminished_seventh(note) for docs

=== `minor_sixth(note)` ===

  * Builds a minor sixth chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> minor_sixth("C")
['C', 'Eb', 'G', 'A']
}}}

=== `minor_thirteenth(note)` ===

  * Builds a minor thirteenth chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> minor_thirteenth('C')
['C', 'Eb', 'G', 'Bb', 'D', 'A']
}}}

=== `minor_triad(note)` ===

  * Builds a minor triad on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> minor_triad("C")
["C", "Eb", "G"]
}}}

=== `second_inversion(chord)` ===

  * Returns the second inversion of chord

=== `seventh(note, key)` ===

  * Returns the seventh chord on note in key.
	Example:
{{{
>>> seventh("C", "C")
["C", "E", "G", "B"]
}}}

=== `sevenths(key)` ===

  * Returns all the sevenths chords in key in a list

=== `sixth_ninth(note)` ===

  * Builds the sixth/ninth chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> sixth_ninth('C')
['C', 'E', 'G', 'A', 'D']
}}}

=== `subdominant(key)` ===

  * Returns the subdominant chord in key.
	Example:
{{{
>>> subdominant("C") 
["F", "A", "C"]
}}}

=== `subdominant7(key)` ===

  * Same as subdominant(key), but returns seventh chord

=== `submediant(key)` ===

  * Returns the submediant chord in key.
	Example:
{{{
>>> submediant("C") 
["A", "C", "E"]
}}}

=== `submediant7(key)` ===

  * Same as submediant(key), but returns seventh chord

=== `subtonic(key)` ===

  * Returns the subtonic in key.
	Example:
{{{
>>> subtonic("C")
['B', 'D', 'F']
}}}

=== `subtonic7(key)` ===

  * Same as subtonic(key), but returns seventh chord

=== `supertonic(key)` ===

  * Returns the supertonic chord in key.
	Example:
{{{
>>> supertonic("C")
["D", "F", "A"]
}}}

=== `supertonic7(key)` ===

  * Same as supertonic(key), but returns seventh chord

=== `suspended_fourth_ninth(note)` ===

  * Builds a suspended fourth flat ninth chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> suspended_ninth("C")
['C', 'F', 'G', 'Db']
}}}

=== `suspended_fourth_triad(note)` ===

  * Builds a suspended fourth triad on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> suspended_fourth_triad("C")
["C", "F", "G"]
}}}

=== `suspended_second_triad(note)` ===

  * Builds a suspended second triad on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> suspended_second_triad("C")
["C", "D", "G"]
}}}

=== `suspended_seventh(note)` ===

  * Builds a suspended (flat) seventh chord on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> suspended_seventh("C")
["C", "F", "G", "Bb"]

}}}

=== `suspended_triad(note)` ===

  * An alias for suspended_fourth_triad

=== `third_inversion(chord)` ===

  * Returns the third inversion of chord

=== `tonic(key)` ===

  * Returns the tonic chord in key.
	Example:
{{{
>>> tonic("C") 
["C", "E", "G"]
}}}

=== `tonic7(key)` ===

  * Same as tonic(key), but returns seventh chord instead

=== `triad(note, key)` ===

  * Returns the triad on note in key as a list.
	Example:
{{{
>>> triad("E", "C") 
["E", "G", "B"]
>>> triad("E", "B")
["E", "G#", "B"]
}}}

=== `triads(key)` ===

  * Returns all the triads in key. Implemented using a cache.

=== `vi(key)` ===

=== `vi7(key)` ===

=== `vii(key)` ===

=== `vii7(key)` ===

----

[mingusIndex Back to Index]