#summary Reference documentation for `mingus.extra.LilyPond`.

----

= mingus.extra.LilyPond =



	The !LilyPond module provides some methods to help you generate files
	in the !LilyPond format. This allows you to create sheet music from some of the objects in mingus.containers



----

== Functions ==

=== `from_Bar(bar, showkey, showtime)` ===

  * *Default values*: showkey = True, showtime = True
  * Expects a [refMingusContainersBar Bar] object and returns the !LilyPond equivalent in a string. showkey and showtime can be set to determine whether the key and the time should be shown.

=== `from_Composition(composition)` ===

  * Returns the !LilyPond equivalent of a [refMingusContainersComposition Composition] in a string

=== `from_Note(note, process_octaves, standalone)` ===

  * *Default values*: process_octaves = True, standalone = True
  * Expects a [refMingusContainersNote Note] object and returns the !LilyPond equivalent in a string. If process_octaves is set to False, all data regarding octaves will be ignored. If standalone is True, the result can be used by functions like to_png and will produce a valid output. The argument is mostly here to let from_NoteContainer make use of this function.

=== `from_NoteContainer(nc, duration, standalone)` ===

  * *Default values*: duration = None, standalone = True
  * Expects a [refMingusContainersNotecontainer NoteContainer] object and returns the !LilyPond equivalent in a string. The second argument determining the duration of the NoteContainer is optional. When the standalone argument is True the result of this function can be used directly by functions like to_png. It is mostly here to be used by from_Bar.

=== `from_Suite(suite)` ===

=== `from_Track(track)` ===

  * Processes a [refMingusContainersTrack Track] object and returns the Lilypond equivalent in a string.

=== `save_string_and_execute_LilyPond(ly_string, filename, command)` ===

  * A helper function for to_png and to_pdf. Should not be used directly

=== `to_pdf(ly_string, filename)` ===

  * Saves a string in LilyPonds format to a PDF. Needs LilyPond in the $PATH.

=== `to_png(ly_string, filename)` ===

  * Saves a string in LilyPonds format to a PNG. Needs LilyPond in the $PATH.

----

[mingusIndex Back to Index]