#summary Reference documentation for `mingus.core.scales`.

----

= mingus.core.scales =



	The scales module allows you to create a plethora of scales. Here's a
	little overview:

	=== The diatonic scale and its modes ===
	* diatonic(note)
	* ionian(note)
	* dorian(note)
	* phrygian(note)
	* lydian(note)
	* mixolydian(note)
	* aeolian(note)
	* locrian(note)

	=== The minor scales ===
	* natural_minor(note)
	* harmonic_minor(note)
	* melodic_minor(note)

	=== Other scales ===
	* chromatic(note)
	* whole_note(note)
	* diminished(note)




----

== Functions ==

=== `aeolian(note)` ===

  * Returns the aeolian mode scale starting on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> aeolian("A")
["A", "B", "C", "D", "E", "F", "G"]
}}}

=== `chromatic(note)` ===

=== `determine(scale)` ===

  * Determines the kind of scale. Can recognize all the diatonic modes and the minor scales.
	Example:
{{{
>>> determine(["C", "D", "E", "F", "G", "A", "B"])
'C ionian'
}}}

=== `diatonic(note)` ===

  * Returns the diatonic scale starting on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> diatonic("C")
["C", "D", "E", "F", "G", "A", "B"]
}}}

=== `diminished(note)` ===

  * Returns the diminshed scale on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> diminished("C")
['C', 'D', 'Eb', 'F', 'Gb', 'Ab', 'A', 'B']
}}}

=== `dorian(note)` ===

  * Returns the dorian mode scale starting on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> dorian("D") 
["D", "E", "F", "G", "A", "B", "C"]
}}}

=== `get_notes(key)` ===

  * Returns an ordered list of the notes in this key. For example: if the key is set to 'F', this function will return `['F', 'G', 'A', 'Bb', 'C', 'D', 'E']`. Exotic or ridiculous keys like 'C####' or even 'Gbb##bb#b##' will work; Note however that the latter example will also get cleaned up to 'G'. This function will raise an !NoteFormatError if the key isn't recognised

=== `harmonic_minor(note)` ===

  * Returns the harmonic minor scale starting on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> harmonic_minor("A")
"A", "B", "C", "D", "E", "F", "G#"]
}}}

=== `ionian(note)` ===

  * Returns the ionian mode scale starting on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> ionian("C")
["C", "D", "E", "F", "G", "A", "B"]
}}}

=== `locrian(note)` ===

  * Returns the locrian mode scale starting on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> locrian("B")
["B", "C", "D", "E", "F", "G", "A"]
}}}

=== `lydian(note)` ===

  * Returns the lydian mode scale starting on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> lydian("F") 
["F", "G", "A", B", "C", "D", "E"]
}}} 

=== `melodic_minor(note)` ===

  * Returns the melodic minor scale starting on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> melodic_minor("A")
["A", "B", "C", "D", "E", "F#", "G#"]
}}}

=== `mixolydian(note)` ===

  * Returns the mixolydian mode scale starting on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> mixolydian("G")
["G", "A", "B", "C", "D", "E", "F"]
}}}

=== `natural_minor(note)` ===

  * Returns the natural minor scale starting on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> natural_minor("A")
["A", "B", "C", "D", "E", "F", "G"]
}}}

=== `phrygian(note)` ===

  * Returns the phrygian mode scale starting on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> phrygian("E") 
["E", "F", "G", "A", "B", "C", "D"]
}}} 

=== `whole_note(note)` ===

  * Returns the whole note scale starting on note.
	Example:
{{{
>>> whole_note("C")
["C", "D", "E", "F#", "G#", "A#"]
}}}

----

[mingusIndex Back to Index]