#summary Reference documentation for `mingus.midi.fluidsynth`.

----

= mingus.midi.fluidsynth =



   This module provides FluidSynth support for mingus. FluidSynth is a software 
   MIDI synthesizer which allows you to play the containers in mingus.containers 
   real-time. To work with this module, you'll need fluidsynth and a nice 
   instrument collection (look here: http://www.hammersound.net, go to Sounds -> 
   Soundfont Library -> Collections).

   To start using FluidSynth with mingus, do:
{{{
    >>> from mingus.midi import fluidsynth
    >>> fluidsynth.init("soundfontlocation.sf2")
}}}

   Now you are ready to play Notes, NoteContainers, etc.



----

== Attributes ==

=== `initialized` ===

  * *Type*: bool
  * *Value*: False

=== `midi` ===

  * *Type*: instance
  * *Value*: <mingus.midi.fluidsynth.FluidSynthSequencer instance at 0x201a908>

----

== Functions ==

=== `control_change(channel, control, value)` ===

  * Sends a control change event on channel.

=== `init(sf2, driver, file)` ===

  * *Default values*: driver = None, file = None
  * This function needs to be called before you can have any audio. The sf2 argument should be the location of a valid soundfont file. The optional driver argument can be any of 'alsa', 'oss', 'jack', 'portaudio', 'sndmgr', 'coreaudio' or 'Direct Sound'. If the file argument is not None, then instead of loading the driver, a new wave file will be initialized to store the audio data. Returns True on success, False on failure.

=== `main_volume(channel, value)` ===

=== `modulation(channel, value)` ===

=== `pan(channel, value)` ===

=== `play_Bar(bar, channel, bpm)` ===

  * *Default values*: channel = 1, bpm = 120
  * Plays a Bar object using play_NoteContainer and stop_NoteContainer. Set a bpm attribute on a NoteContainer to change the tempo.

=== `play_Bars(bars, channels, bpm)` ===

  * *Default values*: bpm = 120
  * Plays a list of bars on the given list of channels. Set a bpm attribute on a NoteContainer to change the tempo.

=== `play_Composition(composition, channels, bpm)` ===

  * *Default values*: channels = None, bpm = 120
  * Plays a composition.

=== `play_Note(note, channel, velocity)` ===

  * *Default values*: channel = 1, velocity = 100
  * Converts a Note object to a `midi on` command. The channel and velocity can be set as Note attributes as well. If that's the case those values take presedence over the ones given here as function arguments.
{{{
>>> n = Note("C", 4)
>>> n.channel = 9
>>> n.velocity = 50
>>> FluidSynth.play_Note(n)
}}}

=== `play_NoteContainer(nc, channel, velocity)` ===

  * *Default values*: channel = 1, velocity = 100
  * Uses play_Note to play the Notes in the NoteContainer nc.

=== `play_Track(track, channel, bpm)` ===

  * *Default values*: channel = 1, bpm = 120
  * Uses play_Bar to play a Track object.

=== `play_Tracks(tracks, channels, bpm)` ===

  * *Default values*: bpm = 120
  * Uses play_Bars to play a list of Tracks on the given list of channels.

=== `set_instrument(channel, instr, bank)` ===

  * *Default values*: bank = 0
=== `stop_Note(note, channel)` ===

  * *Default values*: channel = 1
  * Stops the Note playing at channel. If a channel attribute is set on the note, it will take presedence.

=== `stop_NoteContainer(nc, channel)` ===

  * *Default values*: channel = 1
  * Uses stop_Note to stop the notes in NoteContainer nc.

=== `stop_everything()` ===

  * Stops all the playing notes on all channels

----

[mingusIndex Back to Index]